.TH METHA 1 "JANUAR 2017" "Leipzig University Library" "Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
metha \- harvest OAI\-PMH conform endpoints
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmetha\-sync\fR [\fB\fC\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fP, \fB\fC\-set\fR \fISET\fP] \fIendpoint\fP
.PP
\fB\fCmetha\-sync\fR [\fB\fC\-dir\fR] \fIendpoint\fP
.PP
\fB\fCmetha\-cat\fR [\fB\fC\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fP, \fB\fC\-set\fR \fISET\fP] \fIendpoint\fP
.PP
\fB\fCmetha\-id\fR \fIendpoint\fP
.PP
\fB\fCmetha\-ls\fR [\fB\fC\-a\fR] \fIendpoint\fP
.PP
\fB\fCmetha\-files\fR [\fB\fC\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fP, \fB\fC\-set\fR \fISET\fP] \fIendpoint\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI\-PMH) is a
protocol developed for harvesting metadata descriptions of records in an
archive. The specification can be found under
\[la]https://www.openarchives.org/pmh/\[ra]\&.
.PP
This tool harvests and caches data, so incremental invocations on the same
endpoint are fast.
.PP
A list of over 5000 (more or less usable) endpoints can be found here: \[la]https://is.gd/UrST8m\[ra]\&.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-format\fR \fIstring\fP
Metadata format, default \fIoai_dc\fP\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-set\fR \fIstring\fP
Set name.
.TP
\fB\fC\-dir\fR
Show target directory.
.TP
\fB\fC\-log\fR \fIstring\fP
Log to filename, not to stderr.
.TP
\fB\fC\-ignore\-http\-errors\fR \fIstring\fP
Do not stop on HTTP errors, just skip to the next interval.
.TP
\fB\fC\-daily\fR
Use daily intervals for harvesting.
.TP
\fB\fC\-max\fR \fIint\fP
Maximum number of token loops, default \fI1048576\fP\&.
.TP
\fB\fC\-no\-intervals\fR
Harvest in one go, for funny endpoints.
.TP
\fB\fC\-suppress\-format\-parameter\fR
Do not send format parameter.
.TP
\fB\fC\-max\-empty\-responses\fR
Allow a number of empty responses before failing (default 10).
.TP
\fB\fC\-q\fR
Be quiet.
.TP
\fB\fC\-list\fR
List a selection of known OAI endpoints.
.TP
\fB\fC\-rm\fR
Purge harvesting directory.
.TP
\fB\fC\-v\fR
Program version.
.TP
\fB\fC\-H\fR \fIheader\fP
Extra header to pass to the request; syntax like curl, e.g. \-H "Token: 123"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Show metadata about endpoint in JSON format:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-id http://export.arxiv.org/oai2\fR
.PP
Harvest data in the default \fB\fCoai_dc\fR format:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-sync http://export.arxiv.org/oai2\fR
.PP
Harvest data in a specific format:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-sync \-format arXivRaw http://export.arxiv.org/oai2\fR
.PP
Harvest a set in a specific format:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-sync \-set cs \-format arXivRaw http://export.arxiv.org/oai2\fR
.PP
Show harvested data:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-cat http://export.arxiv.org/oai2\fR
.PP
Show harvested data for a given set and format:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-cat \-set cs \-format arXivRaw http://export.arxiv.org/oai2\fR
.PP
The options \fB\fC\-daily\fR, \fB\fC\-ignore\-http\-errors\fR, \fB\fC\-suppress\-format\-parameter\fR,
\fB\fC\-no\-intervals\fR and \fB\fC\-max\fR are used to work around non\-standard server
implementations.
.SH INTEGRATION
.PP
The \fB\fCmetha\-cat\fR tool emits valid XML to stdout, which can be fed into XML
processing tools like 
.BR xmllint (1).
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-cat \-from 2018\-01\-01 http://export.arxiv.org/oai2 | xmllint \-\-format \-\fR
.PP
To get a list of supported formats from an endpoint:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-id http://export.arxiv.org/oai2 | jq \-r '.formats[].metadataPrefix'\fR
.PP
To get a list of available sets from an endpoint:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-id http://export.arxiv.org/oai2 | jq \-r '.sets[].setSpec'\fR
.PP
To remove a harvest completely, remove the harvest directory:
.IP
\fB\fCrm \-rf $(metha\-sync \-dir\fR \fIendpoint\fP\fB\fC)\fR
.PP
To list cached endpoints you can combine \fB\fCmetha\-ls\fR and \fB\fCcolumn\fR formatter:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-ls \-a | column \-t\fR
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
Deprecated: The harvesting directory can be controlled by the \fB\fCMETHA_DIR\fR environment
variable. Use the \fB\fC\-base\-dir\fR flag instead.
.PP
Since metha 0.2.0 the XDG Base Directory
Specification \[la]https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html\[ra]
is followed.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.PP
Endpoints URLs longer than about 200 characters are not supported.
.PP
Currently the harvest will be up to the last full day, so there will be latency
in the data of at most 24 hours.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Please report bugs to \[la]https://github.com/miku/metha/issues\[ra]\&.
.SH ENDPOINTS
.PP
A random sample from \[la]https://is.gd/UrST8m\[ra]
.PP
\[la]http://ojs.academypublisher.com/index.php/jcp/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://sc.lib.muohio.edu/oai/request\[ra]
\[la]http://tees.openrepository.com/tees/oai/request\[ra]
\[la]http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/oai2\[ra]
\[la]http://www.bibliotecaescolardigital.es/oaiBidig2/oai2.php\[ra]
\[la]http://www.revistahipogrifo.com/index.php/hipogrifo/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://jurnal.ugm.ac.id/ifnp/oai\[ra]
\[la]https://journals.aijr.in/index.php/ias/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://etheses.nottingham.ac.uk/cgi/oai2\[ra]
\[la]http://touroscholar.touro.edu/do/oai/\[ra]
\[la]http://mahider.cgiar.org/cgi/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://aasrc.org/aasrj/index.php/aasrj/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://www.repositorio.ufma.br\[ra]
\[la]http://insight.cumbria.ac.uk/perl/oai2\[ra]
\[la]http://repository.javeriana.edu.co/oai/request\[ra]
\[la]http://www.irosss.org/ojs/index.php/IJAEES/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://fofj.org/index.php/journal/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://archiveouverte.campus-insep.net:81/oaicat/OAIHandler\[ra]
\[la]http://masters.kubg.edu.ua/index.php/pi/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://journal.ui.ac.id/v2/index.php/index/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://journal2.um.ac.id/index.php/jct/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://spectrum.library.concordia.ca/cgi/oai2\[ra]
\[la]http://journal.sadra.ac.id/index.php/tanzil/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://www.hstl.crhst.cnrs.fr/tools/oai/oai2.php\[ra]
\[la]http://mdc.cbuc.cat/cgi-bin/oai.exe\[ra]
\[la]http://bfheepsucv.oai.alejandria.biz/cgi-win/be_oai.exe\[ra]
\[la]http://sowiport.gesis.org/OAI/Server\[ra]
\[la]http://www.inter-disciplines.de/index.php/index/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://www.actamonographica.org/ojs-2.2.4/index.php/actamonographica/oai\[ra]
\[la]http://porto.polito.it/cgi/oai2\[ra]
.PP
Curious about the contents of a random endpoint? Run a harvesting roulette with:
.IP
\fB\fCURL=$(shuf \-n 1 <(curl \-Lsf https://git.io/vKXFv)); metha\-sync $URL && metha\-cat $URL\fR
.PP
Select a random record from a random endpoint and display its description:
.IP
\fB\fCmetha\-fortune\fR
.SH UPGRADE TO 0.2.0
.PP
To continue using data harvested with previous metha versions, just rename the
cache directory. For example, if you used the default, this would be:
.IP
\fB\fCmkdir \-p $HOME/.cache && mv $HOME/.metha $HOME/.cache/metha\fR
.SH AUTHORS
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Martin Czygan \[la]martin.czygan@uni-leipzig.de\[ra]
.IP \(bu 2
Natanael Arndt, \[la]https://github.com/white-gecko\[ra]
.IP \(bu 2
Gunnar Þór Magnússon, \[la]https://github.com/gunnihinn\[ra]
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR yaz-marcdump (1), 
.BR xmllint (1), 
.BR jq (1), 
.BR fortune (1)
